Custom reports are very useful and very straightforward once you know how to use them,
but they are underutilized.
Custom reports allow you to combine dimensions and
metrics in ways that don't always appear in the built-in reports.
Very importantly, custom reports allow you to streamline your reporting.
Often they're more useful for what they don't show.
Let's say you're managing the Google merchandise store or another retail property,
and your sales manager asks you,
"How are sales doing by country?"
Your first reaction might be,
"I know which report I could show my manager."
I can go to geo-location and here are
the countries that appear as the primary dimension by default.
If we scroll over,
we can see several e-commerce metrics.
But you actually have not done as good a job as you could do.
So, what you can do instead is go to
"Customisation," "Custom reports," click "New Custom Report."
Now, when you first open the Create Custom Report panel,
it can look a little bit busy.
An important thing to remember is that you can define
a custom report with just one dimension and one metric,
and that's what we're going to focus on in the custom report.
We'll start with our dimension.
We're talking about countries.
So, we'll just select "Country" as the primary dimension,
and then for metrics,
I always like to start with a baseline metric sessions or page views.
We'll start with sessions here,
then let's select "Ecommerce Conversion Rate,
Transactions, Revenue," and let's surface
another e-commerce metric that sometimes gets a little bit buried, average order value.
For metric group, we don't have to worry about the name of that too much,
we can just call this e-commerce.
Report tab, we also don't have to worry about
that too much unless we're adding several tabs.
We'll just call this tab "Main,
Custom Report Name," E-commerce by country is good.
Go ahead and click "Save."
Now, we have a nice streamlined Ecommerce report by country.
This will provide a better way for you to communicate
with your manager and answer the question that was asked of you.
Let's take another example.
Let's say that you have a colleague who specializes in page design and they ask you,
"How are my landing pages performing?"
They're aware of the concept of landing pages and they
want to understand the performance of the pages they have designed.
Again, you may first want to navigate to
the landing pages report to show to your colleague,
but some of these metrics may be a distraction.
You may not want to focus as much on pages per
session as on bounce rate and Ecommerce conversion rate.
Again in this case,
you can go to "Customisation," "Custom report"
and quickly put together a more streamlined and effective report.
"Add dimension, Landing Page for metrics sessions,
Bounce Rate, Average Session Duration, Ecommerce Conversion Rate."
We can add whichever metrics we think are important and leave out
the metrics that we think are not especially relevant to the conversation.
Metric Group perfomance, we can call it whatever we want, "Report Tab," "Main."
Let's call this report "Landing Pages Streamlined."
Here again, we have a much more effective report
to respond to the question that was asked.
As a few more considerations regarding custom reports,
you only need read and analyze access two of you to create a custom report.
You do not need edit rights.
Custom reports don't alter any underlying report data.
They're retroactive and they're yours only unless you decide to share them.
Note that by default,
customer reports are accessible only by you within the view that you've created them in.
If we click into "Landing Pages Streamlined," and we click "Edit," we
can see that the custom report is accessible only within this view.
If we did want to make the custom report accessible to
all views within this account under our login,
we could change the visibility setting.
Also note that if we wanted to share the configuration
for any custom report with another Google Analytics user,
we can click "Actions,
Share," share template link and forward this URL to that other user.
We'll talk more about sharing in an upcoming lesson.